# TKS RV Target Selection (shared)
Repository with RV target selection code for TESS candidate follow-up using Keck (and eventually atmospheric characterization with JWST).

## Notes on generating the tables from Exoplanet Archive:
Pulling new tables from exoplanet archive subject to the filters below. The goal of this table is to find known planets that could also be good targets for transmission spectroscopy. For transmission spectroscopy, the known planets need to have a reliable mass measurement and must be transiting.

### Composite table
**Add additional columns**
- Planet mass or M*sin(i) upper uncertainty
- Planet mass or M*sin(i) lower uncertainty
- Planet mass or M*sin(i) Limit Flag
- Planet Transit Flag at the bottom of Planet Parameters
- Under Stellar Columns, switch coordinates from sexagesimal to decimal degrees
Press the Update button

**Column filters**
- Planet mass or M*sin(i) upper uncertainty: not null
- Planet mass or M*sin(i) lower uncertainty: not null
These filters get rid of planets that have no upper or lower uncertainties listed on the mass measurements
- Planet mass or M*sin(i) Limit Flag: !1
Makes sure the mass reported isn’t just an upper or lower limit
- Planet mass or M*sin(i) Provenance: not like m-r
Gets rid of planets in the composite table that have a mass estimate from the M-R relationship
- Planet Transit Flag: 1
The planets must be transiting

### Confirmed table
Just use this table to get a J-magnitude, if possible, for planets that survive all of the filtering in the composite table
- Only select columns planet name and J-mag (2MASS) [mag]
If there are planets in both the filtered composite table and this list from the confirmed planet table, then we can replace the Ks mag in the IR magnitude column with a J mag. If not, just leave the K-mag there.

## Generating the target list

**Get TOI data**
Download the latest version of the TKS selected_TOIs spreadsheet and save it to data/TKS/.
Delete older copies.

Download the latest TOI+ table from the tev.mit.edu website, and save it to data/toi/.
Delete older copies.

**Extract TIC IDs and get ExoFOP information**
Run the get_tic_ids.py script, example command line call:

  python get_tic_ids.py tic_ids

Once the files generated by get_tic_ids.py are saved:

Go to the ExoFOP-TESS Search page: https://exofop.ipac.caltech.edu/tess/search.php
- Change coordinates to Decimal Degrees (is this necessary?)
- Under the Magnitudes tab, select "Include in Output" for V, J, H, K
- Upload each .txt file and click the search button
- Save the output to the data/exofop folder

Now that you have separate .csv files with the ExoFOP information, concatentate them by
running the concat_exofop_search_results.py script, e.g.:

  python concat_exofop_search_results.py exofop_2020-05-09

Delete the separate exofop search result .csv files now that you have a single,
concatenated version.

**Generate the target list**
You're now ready to run the target list script:

  python target_list_script.py sc3_target_list_2020-05-09.csv --min_TSM 35

(Note: The call above uses the optional min_TSM argument, meaning that any target
  with a TSM < 35 is dropped from the final list. This prevents poor atmospheric
  targets from making the final cut because their bin is underpopulated.)

While the target list script is executing, it will ask you if you want to include
a list of VIP targets. This will mark high priority targets with a special vip_rank
value, so that they get observed first, regardless of their bin ranking or TSM value.
You don't have to include a VIP list (and this SC3 functionality is largely deprecated
with the latest version of Ashley's TKS target selection algorithm). If you would
like to include a vip list, see the ./vip_list.txt file for an example. The file should
have a single column with the cps IDs of the systems you'd like to assign the VIP
priorities to, with the top priority VIP targets at the top of the file.
